The mutant is able to generate a tremendously bright flash of light from a specific part of his body (hands, eyes, hair, etc.) chosen by the player. This flash affects every creature (including Live Metal) within 30 feet (60’ in the dark) who fails a Reflex save. (DC = 10 + MPS mod + ½ level.) If the targets were looking in the direction of the mutant, they are blinded for 1d4+MPS rounds; otherwise (unless specifically warned about the flash) they are dazzled for 1 round. The mutant cannot be blinded or dazzled by bright light. He can store enough light for three flashes, but it takes two hours to regenerate a used flash. As an alternative to the sudden light discharge, the mutant can use up a flash to glow with a light equal to normal daylight for 10 + MPS modifier rounds. The glow this creates illuminates a 30’ radius area


The mutant can generate a poison that is delivered by a natural attack, such as a bite, claws, horns, spit, sting, etc. The mutant can store enough poison for three successful attacks. It takes three hours to regenerate one dose. The mutant is immune to his own poison, and gains a +2 bonus on Health saves vs poison. The damage caused is either to Strength, Constitution or Dexterity, determined randomly.
Type: Injury; Save: Health DC10 plus half the mutant’s level plus CON modifier. Onset: 1 round; Frequency: 1/round for 4 rounds;
Effect: 1d4 damage; Cure: 2 consecutive saves.

The mutant has the ability to change the temperature in an area. Roll 1d6. On a 1—3, he has the ability to increase (pyrokinesis) the temperature. On a 4—6, can decrease (cryokinesis) it. The power has a range of 50 feet plus 5 feet per MPS modifier, and affects either an area with a 5’ radius, or a single small or medium sized target. If the target is a creature (or a held object) the mutant requires a successful mental touch attack. To activate the power is full-round action, and maintaining it is a standard action. Initially, the mutant heats (or cools) an area, causing 1d6 points of damage to anything within the target area. On each successive round pyrokinesis or cryokinesis causes an additional 1d6 of damage, up to a maximum of 6d6 damage. The mutant can maintain the power for a maximum of 3 + MPS modifier rounds. After that he cannot use it again for three hours. If he stops during the build-up of power, he cannot resume or reactivate the power. Mutants with pyro/cryokinesis take half damage from heat/cold damage (respectively).  Once damage reaches 3d6, flammable materials will catch fire (pyrokinesis), or water will freeze (cyrokinesis). If pyro/cryokinesis is applied to an object, a creature continuing to hold the object will take damage as it heats or cools.

The mutant has the ability to project a beam of force that attempts to repulse all things along a line from the mutant. The line extends up to 20 feet, plus 5 feet per MPS modifier. All creatures (and unattended objects) not more than one size category larger than the mutant are subjected to a bull rush. A roll of 1d20 + BA + MS mod + MPS mod (instead of the mutant’s CMB), is compared against the CMD of each opponent. If the “attack” is successful, a target is pushed back 5 feet. For every 5 by which the attack exceeds the opponent’s CMD, the target is pushed back an additional 5 feet. Any opponent that strikes a solid object (or is hit by one) takes 1d6 non-lethal damage per 10’ of movement. The power can be used a number of times a day equal to 3 + MPS modifier.

The plant can adapt (become immune) to a particular attack form that has harmed it. On the round it is attacked, it must decide whether or not to begin the process of adaptation. It can drop a previous immunity to adapt to a new attack. The plant can have a total of two adapted immunities at any given time. It takes five days for the plant to complete the adaptation process. There are no restrictions to its activities during this time. For example, if it adapts to fire attacks, it grows a flame resistant bark. If it adapts to bludgeoning attacks, its surface becomes flexible and pliant. For the purposes of this mutation, physical attacks are divided into slashing, piercing and bludgeoning attacks; energy attacks into acid, cold, electricity, fire/heat, sonic/concussion and radiation - adaptation must be made to each individually. Gunshots are considered to be piercing attacks

